---
layout: post
title: Web Dev Problems
feature-img: "img/sample_feature_img.png"
---

Becoming a web developer is tough, for someone who is interested in this line of work yet doesn't have any experience the question of "where do I begin?", can be a daunting and overwhelming task.  On the bright side there are many options for you to choose from.  New coding bootcamps are popping up all the time whether they be remote or in person.  Or if you don't want to leave a dent in your wallet but still wanna code, the internet is chuck full of free resources to allow you to teach yourself any language or framework that's out there.  

I began down the long and challenging road towards being a web developer in 2014 by first reading books about HTML and CSS.  I then began frequently visiting sites like [Codeacademy](https://www.codecademy.com) and [Tuts+](http://tutsplus.com) which are excellent resources (Codeacademy is free and Tuts+ requires you pay a small premium to access all of their content but is definitely worth it).  After some time utilizing these sites I was starting to see some nice results, however, I wasn't getting them fast enough which is what made want to enroll in a dev bootcamp somewhere.  

After a few google searches I settled upon Thinkful, a bootcamp based in New York, that allowed for online enrollment.  This was important to me as I wanted to continue working while I was a student at Thinkful.  Other bootcamps required students to appear in person and were much more expensive.  Thinkful was very affordable, I began with their frontend web development course.  I was beginning to learn at a much faster pace and the support from a mentor in the industry was invaluable.  However, I was now being introduced to more difficult concepts and languages like Javascript, Ajax and API's which at times felt overwhelming because of the degree of difficulty.  Yet if you remain patient and keep practicing you will eventually comprehend any topic you come across.  Don't forget to give yourself breaks and don't ever go to hard on yourself for thinking you weren't understanding something fast enough.

I proceeded to finish Thinkful's frontend course, received a certificate and took my first shot at landing a job in the industry.  However, while job hunting I still often felt that I needed to learn more or that my comprehension levels weren't high enough as I wanted them to be in certain categories.  I began going back to sites like Codeacademy and Tuts+ and back to self-teaching all while still hunting for work.  This went on for a few months until I decided to enroll in a second bootcamp course.  This time around though I wanted to not only work on areas of weakness but learn all that was necessary to become a fullstack developer as well.  Challenge accepted.

I choose to enroll in a San Francisco based school named Bloc and participate in their full stack web development track that they had to offer.  This track covers all that is needed to enable an aspiring coder to be ready for a jr web developer role.  The course spanned 72 weeks, was reasonably affordable and allowed me the luxury of coding from home.  As of right now I am nearly complete with the first half of this course and will wrap up with the rest of it in its entirety by mid October of this year.  I aim to land my first job in the industry as I am moving through the course.  So far Bloc has been amazing and really proven to be the missing support that I had been seeking.  I have successfully been able to solidify concepts that weren't quite clear before and even make learning new ones less challenging.

When contemplating whether to enroll in a bootcamp or not there are many factors that should be considered.  Are you willing to pay money to learn how to code?  As mentioned there are numerous free resources on the world wide web that can theoretically enable anyone to learn how to become a developer on their own without spending a dime.  On the contrary, learning at your own pace is just that, your own pace, which might not be fast enough for some.  If this is the case I strongly recommend choosing to enroll in a bootcamp somewhere.  Yes, you will have to cough up some dough, schools range from $900 to $18,000 to enroll in.  Of course topics (frontend vs. backend vs. fullstack), formats (remote vs. in-person), timespan (3 months vs. 18) and the schools reputation all vary.  You really have to consider what works best for you.  Money should not be an obstacle here either, if you are truely passionate about coding think of enrolling in a bootcamp as an investment in your life that will pay itself off several times over in the future.

Most importantly it can be very easy to discourage and/or frustrated while learning how to become a developer.  This normal and something that everyone experiences from time to time, even experienced developers.  Don't let any of this get you down, stay motivated and stay focused!  It's not a race and it shouldn't feel like one.  Always give yourself time and take things slow when you need to.  Don't worry if you don't quite understand a concept after the first 10 or even 20 times you've read about it.  If you stay determined you WILL get it eventually.

Stay hungry, never stop learning.