---
layout: post
title: Experience with Bloc
---

I enrolled in Bloc back in May of 2015 and will continue working through my course until October of 2016.  I chose the full stack web developer track because I wanted to have full control over any idea I wanted to build.  So far my experience with Bloc has been extremely motivating and uplifting.  They format their curriculum in ways that make coding fun and exciting and help to minimize moments of frustration and intimidation.  You begin by working your way through the foundation phase where you will learn the fundamentals that you need to know.  Next comes the project phase where you apply everything that you've learned in the foundation phase and build two suggested projects and then declare and build a project of your choosing which will be know as your capstone.  The last phase is job preparation and helps you to land your first job within the industry.

The fact that Bloc's curriculum is project oriented was a huge selling point for me.  Projects are what you work on in the real world therefore a project oriented curriculum is practical and it makes sense.  Some schools focus on fundamentals but don't apply them in significant enough ways to relate to real world work.  During the first half of my full stack web developer track, I learned how to replicate such sites as Reddit and Wikipedia.  This forced me to apply my skills to build common things like a user authentication system or the ability to upgrade a standard user to a premium user.  No matter which phase of the course you are in, each phase is split into a series of checkpoints that you work through during the course.  I feel these checkpoints are set up in a way to introduce just enough new concepts during each lesson to leave you challenged yet not overwhelmed.

Argueably though, the best aspect of Bloc are the 1 on 1 mentor sessions.  Being able to work with another human being who is an industry professional when stuck on coding issues is invaluable.  Words cannot describe how important this is as this is probably the greatest benefit of paying to enroll in a bootcamp vs. choosing to teach yourself from free resources online.  My mentor was always helpful, informative and always had great attitude and was fun to work with.  During sessions I often feel as though I am not only learning but just hanging out and talking to a friend at the same time.

I would recommend Bloc to anyone who is interested in learning how to code.  If you would like to continue working while you transition into a career Bloc is the choice for you.  In the beginning, I'd spend time constantly researching the internet for bootcamp comparisons and reviews.  After proceeding with this I quickly noticed that many others agreed with me.